Add MCAP example (#12353)
rerun-io/rerun: examples/python/mcap/README.md

> MCAP (pronounced "em-cap") is an open source container file format for multimodal log data. It supports multiple channels of timestamped pre-serialized data, and is ideal for use in pub/sub or robotics applications.

MCAP is the default bag format in ROS 2 and is rapidly gaining adoption. You can read more about [Rerun's MCAP support here](https://rerun.io/docs/howto/mcap).

In this guide, you will learn:

1. How to **load MCAP files** directly into the Rerun viewer.
2. How to **convert MCAP files** into native Rerun data files (**RRD**).
3. How to **convert older ROS bags** (ROS 1 and ROS 2 SQLite3) into MCAP.
4. How to read and deserialize MCAP/RRD data in Python for programmatic processing and advanced visualization in Rerun.

We will use a dataset from the [JKK Research Center](https://jkk-research.github.io/dataset/jkk_dataset_01/) containing LiDAR, images, GPS, and IMU data. The workflow involves converting the original ROS 1 bag → MCAP → RRD, and then using Python to log the RRD data with specific Rerun components for optimal visualization.

## Follow the tutorial and run the code

> This is an external example. Check the [mcap_example](https://github.com/rerun-io/mcap_example) repository for more information.

Reviewer: The external repository is still not public. I guess this should be changed before this gets merged.

                ),
            ),
            row_shares=[0.2, 0.4, 0.4],
        ),
    ),
    rrb.TimePanel(
        state=rrb.components.PanelState.Collapsed,
        play_state=rrb.components.PlayState.Playing,
        loop_mode=rrb.components.LoopMode.All,
    ),
    collapse_panels=True,
)
```

### Run the code

This is an external example. Check the [repository](https://github.com/rerun-io/mcap_example) for more information.

To run this example, make sure you have the [Pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/#installation) package manager installed.

```sh
pixi run example
```

You can type:

```sh
pixi run example -h
```

to see all available commands. For example, if you placed the `RRD` file in a different location, you want to provide the `--root-dir` option, and if you renamed the file, you will want to provide the `--dataset-file` option.

## Tips

Here are some tips for how to work with an RRD file. The video goes over these in more detail.

### Stats tool

You can see the entities and components you are interested in using the `stats` tool:

```sh
rerun rrd stats [PATH_TO_INPUT_RRDS]
```

### How to find the component for an entity

> If you are unsure what components are available for an entity, a script is provided, `mcap_example/rrd_info.py`, in this repository. To run it:

Reviewer: Not sure how much sense it makes to have the full README duplicated here and there?

> If you are unsure what components are available for an entity, a script is provided, `mcap_example/rrd_info.py`, in this repository. To run it:

Author: Agree, how do you recommend splitting it up?

> If you are unsure what components are available for an entity, a script is provided, `mcap_example/rrd_info.py`, in this repository. To run it:

Author: I have made a split not, only keeping the background in the main repo.

```
/ENTITY_1:
  ├─ COMPONENT_1: [FIELDS...]
  ...
  └─ COMPONENT_N: [FIELDS...]
...
/ENTITY_M:
  ├─ COMPONENT_1: [FIELDS...]
  ...
  └─ COMPONENT_L: [FIELDS...]
```

### Convert Rerun `EncodedImage` to PIL

Here follows an example for how you can open the Rerun `EncodedImage:blob` component as a PIL image. This is useful if you, for example, want to process the images in some fashion, maybe for segmentation or classification.

```python
import rerun as rr
from datafusion import col
import pyarrow as pa
from PIL import Image
import numpy as np
import io

path_to_rrd = 'leaf-2022-03-18-gyor.rrd'

with rr.server.Server(datasets={'dataset': [path_to_rrd]}) as server:
    dataset = server.client().get_dataset('dataset')

    entity = '/zed_node/left/image_rect_color/compressed'
    blob_col = f'{entity}:EncodedImage:blob'
    timeline = 'ros2_timestamp'

    df = dataset.filter_contents([entity]).reader(index=timeline)

    image = pa.table(df.select(blob_col))[blob_col][0]

    image_data = np.array(image, np.uint8)
    image = Image.open(io.BytesIO(image_data))
    image.show()
```

## In-depth elaboration on the MCAP -> RRD workflow

### 1. The importance of RRD conversion

> The core of this example is demonstrating how Rerun can efficiently handle complex robotics data logs. While Rerun can view MCAP files directly, the conversion to RRD (Rerun Data file) is crucial for two main reasons:

Author: True. I change this to saying it is "helpful" instead and removed the second point about timelines.
```suggestion
The core of this example is demonstrating how Rerun can efficiently handle complex robotics data logs. While Rerun can view MCAP files directly, the conversion to RRD (Rerun Data file) is helpful; because, MCAP files store data as opaque, pre-serialized blobs corresponding to specific ROS message types (e.g., [sensor_msgs/msg/PointCloud2](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/p/sensor_msgs/msg/PointCloud2.html)). When Rerun's `mcap convert` utility processes this, it semantically interprets these blobs. It understands that a `PointCloud2` message should be converted into the native Rerun `Points3D` archetype. This process lifts the data out of the ROS ecosystem and into a Rerun-native, high-level format.
```
